bushcraft how to use a storm cattle
hello welcome to videojug my name's
Simon Ella I'm the editor of bushcraft
and survival skills magazine she's going
to show you a handy little device and
this is called a Kelly Kettle or storm
kettle some people know them as volcano
stoves basically you can see there that
the the center of its Hollow and there's
a very thin skin around that that you
can put water into what you do is create
a small fire in the base drop it on top
of that and what you get is a chimney
effect coming through you can see the
flames just beginning to flick out of
the top there so you get the heat that's
rising and also the smoke that rises
heating the outer skin which your waters
in you just drop down bits of twigs and
they advertise that you can use it with
with anything before too long you have a
a nice little hot drink the idea behind
the Kelly Kettle or or storm kettle is
that they're very easy to use in a in a
storm because you've got that kind of
protection around you your fire the
chimney effect draws the heat up through
it so it's very effective and needs very
little fuel to actually keep it keep it
running started with quite a small fire
and
sort of feeding it at a fairly relaxed
pace it's more a moment to just sort of
stop and have a minute but if you can
hear now the water's quite quite
rigorously bubbling away so we're about
ready for making our drink
the device you've got a cork on the base
that you just sort of lift that to poor
supply your little fire and have a drink
and obviously it's quite self-contained
in there so it's quite a good good
controlled way of having a little fire
as well Cheers
you